#summary Conventional Getting Started with Snofyre API.

= Conventional Getting Started with Snofyre API =
This section describes the conventional way of getting to grips with Snofyre API. By conventional we mean checking out code, compiling, etc.

==Prerequisites==
  * Snofyre requires Java SE Development Kit to be installed on the client machine. Please [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html download] and install the JDK on your machine.
  * Snofyre requires an instance of MySQL server to store data and execute queries against. You can download MySQL server from http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/

==Getting Started with Snofyre API==
Snofyre uses:
  * [http://maven.apache.org/ Maven] for build and software management.
  * [http://subversion.apache.org/ Subversion] for version control.

==Checking out===
  * Download and install Subversion from http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html
  * Check out the code using:
{{{ 
svn checkout http://snofyre.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ snofyre-read-only
}}}
  * If you used the above command, then your directory structure should look like
{{{
snofyre-read-only
  |__ srth-desktop
  |__ srth-osgi
  |__ snomed-osgi
  |__ yasb-osgi
}}}
  * If you do not wish to use bleeding edge code, then check out the code from tags instead of trunk using:
{{{ 
svn checkout http://snofyre.googlecode.com/svn/tags/ snofyre-stable
}}}
  * Please [http://code.google.com/p/snofyre/source/browse/ browse] the tags folder and select a release to avoid downloading all tagged releases.
  * There is some useful information on http://code.google.com/p/snofyre/source/checkout
 
===Compiling Snofyre===
  * Download and install Maven from http://maven.apache.org/download.html. Note Snofyre was built using Maven version 2.1.0, so we do not recommend using Maven version 3 yet.
  * {{{cd}}} to the directory where you've checked out Snofyre code to.
  * Use {{{mvn clean install}}} to compile and install code.
  * For example, after using the above instructions to check out code, you can compile code in {{{srth-desktop}}} folder using
{{{
cd snofyre-read-only
cd srth-desktop
mvn clean install
}}}
  * Note that you'll need to run {{{mvn clean install}}} in the folders in the following order:
{{{
srth-desktop
snomed-osgi
yasb-osgi
srth-osgi
}}}
  * Note that maven build will fail because some of the test cases included require access to a SNOMED CT database (as configured for Snofyre). So if you already have Snofyre up and running on your development machine, all your test cases (and your build) will be successful.
  * If you do not have have Snofyre installed on your development machine, then you are recommend to do so because it'll help you understand how all of Snofyre's components fit together.
  * If you can not or will not install MySQL server and import all of SNOMED CT into a database (as described in Snofyre's Installation Manual), then you have the following options:
    * Create the SNOMED CT database on a remote machine/server and change the {{{JDBC}}} connection settings for the unit tests to point to this remote server. The {{{JDBC}}} connection parameters are specified in the snomed-db.properties file in the {{{test/resources}}} folder specified by Maven conventions.
    * Create Mock objects to replace all calls to the underlying SNOMED CT database. This is the recommended best practice method. Please get in touch on http://groups.google.com/group/snofyre-dev if you have written this or plan to do this.
    * Finally, this is not recommended practice, but you can ask Maven to ignore all test failures by using:
{{{
mvn clean install -Dmaven.test.failure.ignore=true
}}}

===Setting up in an IDE===
  * Since Snofyre uses Maven, most popular IDEs that support Maven projects can be used to compile and build Snofyre.
  * There are no guides here for setting up Snofyre code in a given IDE, but we welcome contributions on 'how to guides' for your IDE of choice. Please contact us at snofyre-dev@googlegroups.com, if you have ideas or contributions.