#summary Getting Started with Snofyre API.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Getting Started with Snofyre API =

==Prerequisites==
  * Snofyre and its installer requires Java SE Development Kit to be installed on the client machine. Please [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html download] and install the JDK on your machine.
  * Snofyre requires an instance of MySQL server to store data and execute queries against. You can download MySQL server from http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/

==Getting Started with Snofyre API==
Snofyre uses:
  * [http://maven.apache.org/ Maven] for build and software management.
  * [http://mercurial.selenic.com/ Mercurial] for version control.

==Checking out===
  * Download and install Mercurial from http://mercurial.selenic.com/downloads/
  * Check out the code using {{{ hg clone https://snofyre.googlecode.com/hg/ snofyre }}}.
  * There is some useful information on http://code.google.com/p/snofyre/source/checkout
 
===Compiling Snofyre===
  * Download and install Maven from http://maven.apache.org/download.html. Note Snofyre was built using Maven version 2.1.0, so we do not recommend using Maven version 3 yet.
  * {{{cd}}} to the directory where you've checked out Snofyre code to.
  * Use {{{mvn clean install}}}.
  * Note that you'll need to {{{mvn clean install}}} in the folders in the following order:

===Setting up in an IDE===
  * Since Snofyre uses Maven, most popular IDEs that support Maven projects can be used to compile and build Snofyre.
  * There are no guides here for setting up Snofyre code in a given IDE, but we welcome contributions on 'how to guides' for your IDE of choice. Please contact us at snofyre-dev@googlegroups.com, if you have ideas or contributions.